# Weighted Random sampler for unbalanced image data and training of deep learning classification-model

- The dataset is the Stanford Dog dataset which comprises of 120 dog classes. There are approximately ~200 images per dog category. The web page for the dataset is at http://vision.stanford.edu/aditya86/ImageNetDogs/ . More specifically, for classification task we will need the file which is available at http://vision.stanford.edu/aditya86/ImageNetDogs/images.tar 

-  The first step is data preparation. The Stanford dataset itself is balanced. We want to first create an unbalanced dataset out of it. To do this we have written a script in python which orders the class folders from highest to lowest number of images in them. The highest training examples for a class are 252. The folders in a descending order and then all other classes encounter a size reduction of 2 images. Let me explain how that works. Say the highest represented class has 252 images,  the second highest represented class should have 250 images (reduction of 2 images), so if this second highest represented class has say 251 image so we would reduce the size to 250 images by randomly removing one image. If its size is already 250 or less then you don't need to do any such thing. Look at the following sequence suppose the classes when ordered in descending order had number of images such as 252, 247, 246, 245, 244, 243, 242. According to our 2 image reduction rule they should have maximum images 252, 250, 248, 246, 244, 242, 240 so the actual number of images we end up with 252, 247(already below threshold), 246(already below threshold), 245(already below threshold), 244, 242(one removed), 240(two removed). we have a script “Data Creation” that takes the source directory as argument and generates an output directory as the result. 

- The class used to handle the oversampling or under sampling of the data for unbalanced classes is called the WeightedRandomSampler and can be found in torch.utils.data. we have balanced the data and then applied the deep learning model for classification code can be found in 2nd file “Data Traning”.
